---
title: Post URL generated by Jekyll 
layout: post
categories: blog
tags: jekyll
---

Knowing how Jekyll forms the url for you makes it easier to work with. 

## Posts categories and permalink

To publish a jekyll post, you put it under the directory `_posts/`, which is automatically recognized by Jekyll. It is mandatory that the file name has the format `yyyy-mm-dd-post-name.md`, so it can be used to generate the associated post url.

For example, the markdown file of this page is **2018-10-04-post-url-by-jekyll.md** (under `_posts/`), which should show up as a page at *my-host-name***/2018/10/04/post-url-by-jekyll.html**. 

Note, however, that the post URL is modified when "categories" and "permalink" are set in the [front matter](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/front-matter/) of the post.   

Post front matter  |  Post URL (omitting host-name)
-------------------|----------
-                  | /2018/10/04/article-name.html
`categories: catA`         | /**catA**/2018/10/04/article-name.html
`categories: [catA, catB]` | /**catA**/**catB**/2018/10/04/article-name.html
`permalink: /pl/`    | /**pl**/2018/10/04/article-name.html
`permalink: /pl/pl/` | /**pl/pl**/2018/10/04/article-name.html

1. "permalink" dominates when is set, in which case "categories" no longer affects the url (The category setting still works, but is not reflected in the url). 
2. "tags" does not change the url. 
3. The directory structure under `_post/` does not change the url (even when both categories and permalink are not present.) 


## Pages permalink

You can freely create pages that are not posts and put them outside the `_posts` directly. They simply become stand-alone web pages. The url of these pages are determined by the directory structure. This can be overwritten by specifying a permalink in the front matter.

For example, if I have a file under a directly `page_dir/` (not special to jekyll, unlike `_posts/`), say `page_dir/pageA.md`. then directory becomes part of the page url unless a permalink is specified. 

Page front matter       |  Page URL (omitting host-name)
------------------------|----------
-                       | /page_dir/pageA.html
permalink: /pageA.html  | /pageA.html

Unlike for posts:

1. "categories" does not matter.
2. "permalink" completely decide the page url. So include everything needed.  

